Luau Recap: May 2022 (#513)
Roblox/luau: docs/_posts/2022-06-01-luau-recap-may-2022.md

## Typechecking improvements

We have added a missing check to compare implicit table keys against the key type of the table indexer:

```lua
-- error is correctly reported, implicit keys (1,2,3) are not compatible with [string]
local t: { [string]: boolean } = { true, true, false }
```

Rules for `==` and `~=` have been relaxed for union types, if any of the union parts can be compared, operation succeeds:

```lua
--!strict
local function compare(v1: Vector3, v2: Vector3?)
    return v1 == v2 -- no longer an error
end
```

Table value type propagation now correctly works with `[any]` key type:

```lua
--!strict
type X = {[any]: string | boolean}
local x: X = { key = "str" } -- no longer gives an incorrect error
```

If a generic function doesn't provide type annotations for all arguments and the return value, additional generic type parameters might be added automatically:

```lua
-- previously it was foo<T>, now it's foo<T, b>, because second argument is also generic
function foo<T>(x: T, y) end
```

We have also fixed various issues that have caused crashes, with many of them coming from your bug reports.

## Autocomplete improvements

> Studio autocomplete has received a few improvements:

Author: Removed this section, I'll restore it in Roblox Developer cross-post.

* Function argument names have been added to the function signature display
* `Instance:GetAttribute` and `Instance:SetAttribute` will now suggest attribute names if instance can be resolved
* Inside the new if-then-else expression, incorrect suggestions following `else` have been fixed
* Deprecated lowercase `Color3:toHSV` so it's no longer suggested
* Deprecated lowercase `Instance:findFirstChild`, `Instance:clone`, `Instance:remove`, `Instance:getChildren` and old alias called `Instance:children`.

## Linter improvements

> `global-used-as-local` lint warning has been extended to notice when global variable writes always happen before their use in a local scope, suggesting that they can be replaced with a local variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`GlobalUsedAsLocal` lint warning has been extended to notice when global variable writes always happen before their use in a local scope, suggesting that they can be replaced with a local variable:
```

```lua
function bar()
    foo = 6 -- Global 'foo' is never read before being written. Consider changing it to local
    return foo
end
function baz()
    foo = 10
    return foo
end
```

## Performance improvements

Garbage collection CPU utilization has been tuned to further reduce frame time spikes of individual collection steps and to bring different GC stages to the same level of CPU utilization.

In open-source release of Luau, when optimization level 2 is enabled, compiler will now perform function inlining.  

> Loop unrolling in optimization level 2 has also been improved to handle all language constructs inside the loop body.

Reviewer: Since we haven't mentioned this in the previous recap, we can instead say "function inlining and loop unrolling" above. Maybe expand like this:

In open-source release of Luau, when optimization level 2 is enabled, compiler will now perform function inlining and loop unrolling.

Only loops with loop bounds known at compile time, such as `for i=1,4 do`, can be unrolled. The loop body must be simple enough for the optimization to be profitable; compiler uses heuristics to estimate the performance benefit and automatically decide if unrolling should be performed.

Only local functions (defined either as `local function foo` or `local foo = function`) can be inlined. The function body must be simple enough for the optimization to be profitable; compiler uses heuristics to estimate the performance benefit and automatically decide if each call to the function should be inlined instead. Additionally recursive invocations of a function can't be inlined at this time, and inlining is completely disabled for modules that use `getfenv`/`setfenv` functions.

Author: Added a sub-section for this. Might even leave it in Roblox post because it's cool :)

```lua
--!strict
type X = {[any]: string | boolean}
local x: X = { key = "str" } -- no longer gives an incorrect error
```

If a generic function doesn't provide type annotations for all arguments and the return value, additional generic type parameters might be added automatically:

```lua
-- previously it was foo<T>, now it's foo<T, b>, because second argument is also generic
function foo<T>(x: T, y) end
```

We have also fixed various issues that have caused crashes, with many of them coming from your bug reports.

## Linter improvements

`GlobalUsedAsLocal` lint warning has been extended to notice when global variable writes always happen before their use in a local scope, suggesting that they can be replaced with a local variable:

```lua
function bar()
    foo = 6 -- Global 'foo' is never read before being written. Consider changing it to local
    return foo
end
function baz()
    foo = 10
    return foo
end
```

## Performance improvements

Garbage collection CPU utilization has been tuned to further reduce frame time spikes of individual collection steps and to bring different GC stages to the same level of CPU utilization.

> 

Reviewer: ... was meant as a suggestion

> 

Author: Added.

```lua
-- previously it was foo<T>, now it's foo<T, b>, because second argument is also generic
function foo<T>(x: T, y) end
```

We have also fixed various issues that have caused crashes, with many of them coming from your bug reports.

## Linter improvements

`GlobalUsedAsLocal` lint warning has been extended to notice when global variable writes always happen before their use in a local scope, suggesting that they can be replaced with a local variable:

```lua
function bar()
    foo = 6 -- Global 'foo' is never read before being written. Consider changing it to local
    return foo
end
function baz()
    foo = 10
    return foo
end
```

## Performance improvements

Garbage collection CPU utilization has been tuned to further reduce frame time spikes of individual collection steps and to bring different GC stages to the same level of CPU utilization.

Returning a type-cast local (`return a :: type`) as well as returning multiple local variables (`return a, b, c`) is now a little bit more efficient.

### Function inlining and loop unrolling

> In open-source release of Luau, when optimization level 2 is enabled, compiler will now perform function inlining and loop unrolling.

Reviewer 2: I think this reads a bit better:
```suggestion
In the open-source release of Luau, when optimization level 2 is enabled, the compiler will now perform function inlining and loop unrolling.
```

Also, is this actually specific to the open-source release of Luau?

Author: We compile with optimization level 1 in Roblox

Author: Thank you for the suggestion.
